doc: miscellaneous doc updates for nRF54H20 (#28410)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/app_dev/device_guides/nrf54h/ug_nrf54h20_architecture_lifecycle.rst

   :local:
   :depth: 2

:term:`Lifecycle states (LCS)` are persistent configurations, enforced by the Secure Domain ROM, that control device security features and access-port control.
Each LCS specifies when and how the device allows the following operations:

* Provision or replace security assets, for example, root keys, certificates, and configuration.
* Enable or disable access-port permissions (open, authenticated, or permanently disabled).
* Enforce secure boot and prevent rollback.
* Perform failure analysis (RMA) handling.
* Sanitize the device before disposal.

Available LCS
*************

The Secure Domain ROM implements lifecycle states for the nRF54H20 SoC.
The states are based on the Arm PSA Security Model and enable safe programming and erasure of device assets.

In the following table, *Standard product path* indicates whether the LCS is part of the normal nRF54H20 product deployment path (``Yes``) or is used only for end-of-life (EoL) or other special handling (``No``).

.. list-table:: nRF54H20 lifecycle states
   :header-rows: 1
   :align: center
   :widths: auto

   * - LCS
     - Standard product path
     - Summary
   * - ``EMPTY``
     - ``Yes``

>      - MRAM is empty. The Secure Domain access port is open in order to program the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - MRAM is empty. The Secure Domain access port is open for programming the device.
```

     - ``ANALYSIS``
   * - ``DECOMMISSIONED``
     - ``DISCARDED``

LCS transitions
***************

The following diagram shows the available LCS transitions:

.. figure:: images/nRF54H20_lifecycle_states.svg
   :alt: nRF54H20 lifecycle states and transitions

   nRF54H20 lifecycle states and transitions available on the nRF54H20 SoC.
   Blue arrows indicate authenticated transitions.

Lifecycle state details
***********************

The following sections describe the behavior and transition use of each LCS in more detail.

Using the nRF54H20 SoC on the intended secure path requires forward LCS progression: you must provision your device by transitioning from LCS ``EMPTY`` to LCS ``RoT``, and you typically use LCS ``DEPLOYED`` for products that ship with production locking.

.. caution::

   You can only progress forward through lifecycle states.
   The transition from ``EMPTY`` to ``RoT`` is permanent and cannot be reversed.
   Each forward transition increases protection and reduces invasive access options.
   Re-running initial provisioning and policy configuration after you reach ``DEPLOYED`` is not supported.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_lcs_empty:

``EMPTY``
=========

> In this state, all MRAM contents are empty, and the Secure Domain access port is open in order to program the device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this state, all MRAM contents are empty, and the Secure Domain access port is open for programming the device.
```

LCS ``EMPTY`` is a provisioning state, not a long-term operating mode: remain there only as long as needed to provision the device and perform the one-way transition to ``RoT``.

Before you can move from LCS ``EMPTY`` to LCS ``RoT``, the signed SDFW must already be installed on the device: use the :ref:`IronSide SE provisioning step <ug_nrf54h20_gs_bringup_soc_bin>` while the part is still in LCS ``EMPTY``.
If you request the LCS change to ``RoT`` without a valid, provisioned SDFW, the request fails and the device stays in LCS ``EMPTY``.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_lcs_rot:

``RoT``
=======

> In this state, the Secure Domain access port is closed, and the Secure Domain ROM verifies the SDFW and only boots it when verification succeeds.

Reviewer: boots the device?

Local domain access ports are open unless closed by UICR configuration.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_lcs_deployed:

``DEPLOYED``
============

In this state, the Secure Domain operates as in ``RoT``.

> You should transition to ``DEPLOYED`` before deploying the device in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transition to ``DEPLOYED`` before deploying the device in production.
```

.. note::

>    Factory and production test often rely on local domain access ports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Factory and production tests often rely on local domain access ports.
```

>    Keep the local domain access ports open in the UICR until you have finished functional test and final production test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Keep the local domain access ports open in the UICR until you have finished the functional test and final production test.
```

   * - ``ASSEMBLY_AND_TEST``
     - ``EMPTY``
   * - ``PSA_ROT_PROVISIONING``
     - ``RoT``
   * - ``SECURED``
     - ``DEPLOYED``
   * - ``NORDIC_ANALYSIS``
     - ``ANALYSIS``
   * - ``DECOMMISSIONED``
     - ``DISCARDED``

Lifecycle state details
***********************

The following sections describe the behavior of each LCS in more detail.

.. _ug_nrf54h20_lcs_empty:

``EMPTY``
=========

In this state, all MRAM contents are empty, and the Secure Domain access port is open in order to program the device (for example, SDFW verification keys and SDFW).

.. _ug_nrf54h20_lcs_rot:

``RoT``
=======

In this state, the Secure Domain access port is closed, and the Secure Domain ROM verifies the SDFW and only boots it when verification succeeds.
Local domain access ports are open unless closed by UICR configuration.
The :ref:`nRF54H20 bring-up flow <ug_nrf54h20_gs>` describes programming local domain firmware and provisioning local domain keys in this LCS.

The SDFW is expected to continue and complete its initial (first) boot sequence, where any internal keys are generated and digests of security-critical data structures are calculated and stored in non-volatile memory.

> In ``RoT``, the SDFW can also be used to do the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The SDFW can also be used to do the following:
```
